--- 
layout: post 
title: "Cash - time - gold - dust" 
---

The most important thing in Hearthstone, as in any game, is to have fun. Kind of obvious, I know! :smile:

A slightly less obvious thing is that Hearthstone is a free-to-play (F2P) game. This means that you can start playing it
without paying anything. But in life nothing is truly free, and all F2P games are paid somehow.

Either by tricking you towards impulse buying ("This skin for my character is cool!" "That animation for my spell is
awesome!") or by stuffing ads everywhere and anywhere or by many other mischevious means.

As a result one of the most important things you will need to manage in Hearthstone is your budget.
![Gold](/images/posts/cash-time-gold-dust/gold.jpg)

For that you will need to be able to play the game at a profficient level, so that your "investment decisions" are solid
(see my guide for this: [Welcome to Hearthstone, you
suck!](http://hearthstone.oblio360.com/2015/08/21/welcome-to-hearthstone-you-suck/)) and you will need to know how much
things are really worth in Hearthstone.

There are 4 major resources in Hearthstone:

* Cash
* Time
* Gold
* Dust

and one of the most important things is to see how much each one of them costs, so basically we need several "exchange rates".

The most important ones? The ones most related to "real life" things: cash to gold / dust, time to gold / dust.

# Cash to gold

The easiest exchange rate? Cash to gold. We can figure it out through card pack and arena entry prices, both of which are
shown by Blizzard in both cash and gold. I will use the prices in US dollars from now on, to keep things consistent.

So, let's see:

1 pack: 100 gold. This is the only option which is available for gold, for the rest you'll have to use cash. But we can
use this price and multiply it for the number of packs to determine the gold cost of multiple packs.

2 packs: 200 gold or $2.99.

7 packs: 700 gold or $9.99.

15 packs: 1500 gold or $19.99.

40 packs: 4000 gold or $49.99.

60 packs: 6000 gold or $69.99.

So this means that the cash to gold exchange depends on the volume, giving us a range of:
$1.495 / 100 gold â†’ to $1.167 / 100 gold.

I'll average it to $.1331 / 100 gold to keep things simple.

The other cash to gold entry point is Arena. 1 Arena entry is worth 150 gold or $1.99. What do you know! The "exchange
rate" provided by Arena is close: $1.326 / 100 gold. I'm kidding with the surprise part, I would have only been
surprised if the Arena rate would have been way off :wink:

I'll simplify things even more by using $1.33 / 100 gold as the exchange rate to have (hopefully) nice, round numbers
further along.

This part was easy, compared to the other ones. The reason for this is that we don't have access to Blizzard's
spreadsheets which determine the actual, price exchange rates they're surely determined before the launch of the game
for the rest.

But, thankfully, Hearthstone has a big and active community so we do have some data. And I'd venture to say that we're
damned closer to the actual number Blizzard won't ever show us, than they ever thought.

# Gold to dust

Ok, so along the way we'll take a detour. We need to know how much gold and dust are roughly worth in relation to each
other in order to make a good decision when making our collection.

And here is where the community comes in, let's see what their number crunching determined.

And here they go: [1](http://us.battle.net/hearthstone/en/forum/topic/11985288499), [2](https://www.reddit.com/r/hearthstone/comments/3gp7nh/average_dust_per_pack_test_470_packs_analysed/), [3](https://www.reddit.com/r/hearthstone/comments/23mxqq/calculations_for_exact_pack_probabilities_and/), [4](https://www.reddit.com/r/hearthstone/comments/35xrue/anyone_know_how_much_dust_you_get_on_average_per/).

There are even [statistics pages](http://hearthstone.gamepedia.com/Card_pack_statistics) and
[calculators](http://dollarstodust.com/calc) if you want to dig deeper.

The overall conclusion? 1 pack is worth roughly 100 dust.

Since 1 pack costs 100 gold, therefore the gold to dust exchange is 1:1, or 100:100.

This will also solve...:

# Cash to dust

Well, since gold to dust is 1:1, cash to dust is also $1.33 to 100. Phew, that was easy!

Well, it isn't actually that easy since there are other ways to get dust, such as Arena or Ranked rewards, but those
put is in a more complex equation I doubt anyone will be able to solve without getting Blizzard's marketing guys drunk
on a Friday evening :wink:

Plus there's another component we haven't covered.

# Time to gold

Things related to time are incredibly tricky to determine, but we can at least try. For this to work we need to set some
base rules:

### Average game time is 10 minutes

For most decks, except perhaps Face Hunter, Aggro Zoo or Aggro Paladin, the game will last longer than 5 minutes. And
even then there are factors which happen regardless of the deck type:

* queueing time
* slow opponent
* opponent has an anti-aggro deck that prolongs the game

Based on my personal experience (personal games, friends, streamers, etc.) 10 minutes seems a reasonable estimate. I
haven't actually recorded game time but [some people did
that](http://www.hearthpwn.com/forums/hearthstone-general/general-discussion/12835-game-length-a-study) and their
estimate is actually close to 10 minutes.

### Average win rate is 66% or lower

I can't find the source anymore (please comment below if you have it), but Blizzard released the winrate of the top
legend player for 1 season and it was roughly 75%. So this could be taken as the highest average win rate possible for a
large number of games.

But we have to keep in mind that this was one of the best Hearthstone players in the world, probably at the peak of his
performance, while he was "in the zone".

Mere mortals will probably be more than satisified with 66%, which I feel is still too optimistic for the average
player. To simplify calculations I will use this ratio and maybe adjust the time estimates upwards at the end.

So, our hypothetical player plays 1 game in 10 minutes and wins 2/3 games he plays. How does he get gold? He gets it by
winning 3 games. Then he receives 10 gold, up to a total of 100 gold per day, for 30 total victories.

He can also get gold from daily quests.
